README.md, before:

# HandyMouse

HandyMouse is a Python application that allows you to control your mouse cursor using hand gestures captured by your webcam. It uses MediaPipe for robust hand tracking and maps hand movements to screen coordinates.

## Features

- **Hand Tracking**: Real-time hand tracking using MediaPipe.
- **Cursor Control**: Moves the mouse cursor based on the position of your index finger knuckle (MCP joint).
- **Clicking**: Simulates a left mouse click when you pinch your thumb and index finger together.
- **Smoothing**: Implements a stability threshold to reduce cursor jitter.

## Project Structure

The project has been refactored into modular components:

- `main.py`: The entry point of the application. Handles the main loop and video processing.
- `hand_tracker.py`: Handles MediaPipe initialization and hand landmark extraction.
- `mouse_controller.py`: Manages mouse movement and clicking using `pynput` and `wxPython`.
- `config.py`: Contains configuration constants (camera resolution, thresholds, etc.).
- `utils.py`: Helper functions (e.g., movement stability check).

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.7+
- A webcam

## Installation

1. Clone the repository.
2. Install the required dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

Run the application using:

```bash
python main.py
```

- **Move Cursor**: Move your hand in front of the camera. The cursor follows the base of your index finger.
- **Click**: Pinch your thumb and index finger tips together.
- **Exit**: Press the `Esc` key to close the application.

## Configuration

You can adjust settings in `config.py`:

- `CAM_WIDTH`, `CAM_HEIGHT`: Set your webcam resolution.
- `CLICK_DISTANCE_THRESHOLD`: Adjust how close fingers need to be to register a click.
- `MOVEMENT_STABILITY_THRESHOLD`: Adjust to change how much movement is needed to update cursor position (helps with jitter).

## TODO
- [X] Stabilization
- [ ] General setting
  - [ ] Deciding hand
  - [ ] Set Boundries
- [X] Mouse Toggle
  - [X] Right Click
  - [X] Scroll
- [ ] Volume Control
- [ ] Toggle mute
- [ ] Decide gestures
- [X] Extra click options
  - [X] Scroll
  - [X] Right Click
  - [X] Keep on/off

Commit message:

feat(activation): hold-steady to toggle on; start paused; reset countdown on drift; replace VolumeController with AudioController

README.md, after:

# HandyMouse

HandyMouse is a Python application that allows you to control your mouse cursor using hand gestures captured by your webcam. It uses MediaPipe for robust hand tracking and maps hand movements to screen coordinates.

## Features

- **Hand Tracking**: Real-time hand tracking using MediaPipe.
- **Cursor Control**: Moves the mouse cursor based on the position of your index finger knuckle (MCP joint).
- **Clicking**: Simulates a left mouse click when you pinch your thumb and index finger together.
- **Smoothing**: Implements a stability threshold to reduce cursor jitter.
- **Volume Control**: Hold a “knob” pose and rotate hand to adjust system volume.

## Project Structure

The project has been refactored into modular components:

- `main.py`: The entry point of the application. Handles the main loop and video processing.
- `hand_tracker.py`: Handles MediaPipe initialization and hand landmark extraction.
- `mouse_controller.py`: Manages mouse movement and clicking using `pynput` and `wxPython`.
- `config.py`: Contains configuration constants (camera resolution, thresholds, etc.).
- `utils.py`: Helper functions (e.g., movement stability check).

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.7+
- A webcam

## Installation

1. Clone the repository.
2. Install the required dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Note: Volume control requires `pycaw` (installed via requirements) and Windows.

## Usage

Run the application using:

```bash
python main.py
```

- **Move Cursor**: Move your hand in front of the camera. The cursor follows the base of your index finger.
- **Click**: Pinch your thumb and index finger tips together.
- **Volume (Windows)**: Form a “knob hold” pose, then rotate your hand:
  - All fingertips at a small, similar distance from the thumb (not touching).
  - Thumb close to and below the index MCP; index tip, index MCP, and thumb tip aligned.
  - Rotate right to increase volume, left to decrease. Cursor/clicks pause while adjusting.
- **Exit**: Press the `Esc` key to close the application.

## Configuration

You can adjust settings in `config.py`:

- `CAM_WIDTH`, `CAM_HEIGHT`: Set your webcam resolution.
- `CLICK_DISTANCE_THRESHOLD`: Adjust how close fingers need to be to register a click.
- `MOVEMENT_STABILITY_THRESHOLD`: Adjust to change how much movement is needed to update cursor position (helps with jitter).

Volume gesture tuning:
- `VOLUME_NEAR_MIN_RATIO`, `VOLUME_NEAR_MAX_RATIO`: Thumb–fingertip distance band (scaled by palm size).
- `VOLUME_EQUALITY_TOL`: How similar those distances must be.
- `VOLUME_MIN_VERTICAL_DIFF`, `VOLUME_HORIZONTAL_TOL`: Thumb position relative to index MCP.
- `VOLUME_ENTER_CONFIRM_FRAMES`, `VOLUME_EXIT_LEEWAY`: Pose gating.
- `VOLUME_ANGLE_DEADZONE_DEG`, `VOLUME_DEG_PER_PERCENT`, `VOLUME_SMOOTHING_ALPHA`: Rotation-to-volume mapping and smoothing.
- `VOLUME_DIRECTION_REVERSED`: Flip rotation direction if needed.

## TODO
- [X] Stabilization
- [ ] General setting
  - [ ] Deciding hand
  - [ ] Set Boundries
- [X] Mouse Toggle
  - [X] Right Click
  - [X] Scroll
- [ ] Volume Control
- [ ] Toggle mute
- [ ] Decide gestures
- [X] Extra click options
  - [X] Scroll
  - [X] Right Click
  - [X] Keep on/off
